Create ml-problem-formulation-envisioning.md (#544)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: ml-fundamentals/ml-problem-formulation-envisioning.md

# Envisioning & Problem formulation

> Before beginning a data science investigation, it is necessary to have first defined problem statement which the data science team can explore; the manner of this definition can have a significant influence on whether the project is likely to be successful.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before beginning a data science investigation, we need to define a problem statement which the data science team can explore; this problem statement can have a significant influence on whether the project is likely to be successful.  
```

The main goal of envisioning is to work alongside subject matter experts to formulate the problem in such a way that there is a shared understanding of the problem domain, a clear goal, and a predefined approach to evaluating a potential solution; this is often done through a series of 'envisioning' sessions.

## Understanding the problem domain

Generally, before defining a project scope for a data science investigation, we must first understand the problem domain:

* What is the problem?
* Why does the problem need to be solved?
* Does this problem require a machine learning solution?
* How would a potential solution be used?

However, establishing this understanding can prove difficult, especially for those unfamiliar with the problem domain. To ease this process, we can approach problems in a structured way by taking the following steps:  

> * Identify a measurable problem and define this in business terms, such that there is a clear objective and a good understanding of the input elements that can be controlled which may affect this objective; here, it is best to be as specific as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Identify a measurable problem and define this in business terms. The objective should be clear, and we should have a good understanding of the inputs and how they affect the objective. Be as specific as possible.
```

Reviewer: I found it hard to follow the sentence so I tried to reformulate it, but am unsure if I captured what you wanted to say.

> * Decide how the performance of a solution should be measured, such that it is aligned with the business objective, and the data needed to evaluate the effectiveness of a solution. Note that the data required to evaluate a solution's impact on the overall objective is not necessarily the same as that which may be required to create a solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Decide how the performance of a solution should be measured and identify if it can be measured within the restrictions of this problem, such that it is aligned with the business objective, and the data needed to evaluate the effectiveness of a solution. Note that the data required to evaluate a solution's impact on the overall objective is not necessarily the same as that which may be required to create a solution.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe not the best suggestion, but wanted to clarify that sometimes the performance cannot be measured with the data/systems at your disposal.

> * Decide how the performance of a solution should be measured, such that it is aligned with the business objective, and the data needed to evaluate the effectiveness of a solution. Note that the data required to evaluate a solution's impact on the overall objective is not necessarily the same as that which may be required to create a solution.

Reviewer: I am finding it a little bit hard to follow this sentence as well, can it be formulated a bit more concisely? How is the performance aligned to the data needed. and what does it mean that the data required to evaluate a solutions impact on the overall objective...

I have made a suggestion, but again, not sure if I got it correctly.

> * Decide how the performance of a solution should be measured, such that it is aligned with the business objective, and the data needed to evaluate the effectiveness of a solution. Note that the data required to evaluate a solution's impact on the overall objective is not necessarily the same as that which may be required to create a solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Decide how the performance of a solution should be measured. Make sure it aligns with the business objective and that you have the data required to evaluate the solution. Note that the data required to evaluate a solution may differ from the data needed to create a solution.
```

* Thinking about the solution as a black box, detail the function that a solution to this problem should perform to fulfil the objective and verify that the relevant data is available to solve the problem.

>   * One way of approaching this is by thinking about how a subject matter expert could solve the problem manually and the data that would be required; if a human subject matter expert is unable to use the available data to solve the problem, this is indicative that additional information is required and/or more data needs to be collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * One way of approaching this is by thinking about how a subject matter expert could solve the problem manually and the data that would be required; if a human subject matter expert is unable to solve the problem given the available data, this is indicative that additional information is required and/or more data needs to be collected.
```

* Based on the available data, define specific hypothesis statements - which can be proved
or disproved - to guide the exploration of the data science team. Where possible, each hypothesis statement should have a clearly defined success criteria (e.g., *with an accuracy of over 60%*), however, this is not always possible - especially for projects where no solution to the problem currently exists. In these cases, the measure of success could be based on a subject matter expert verifying that the results meet their expectations.

> * Document all the above information, to ensure alignment between stakeholders and establish a clear understanding of the problem to be solved. Try to ensure that as much relevant domain knowledge is captured as possible, and that the features present in available data - and the way that the data was collected - are clearly explained, such that they can be understood by a non-subject matter expert.

Reviewer: Are there some good templates or tools to document this? maybe a definition of done, or some ADR like template?

Author: Not that I am aware of, that could be a good area of future work

> Once an understanding of the problem domain has been established, it may be necessary to break down the overall problem into smaller, meaningful chunks of work to maintain team focus and ensure a realistic project scope within the given timeframe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once an understanding of the problem domain has been established, it may be necessary to break down the overall problem into smaller, meaningful chunks of work to maintain team focus and ensure a realistic project scope within the given time frame.
```

## Envisioning Checklist

During envisioning sessions, the following may prove useful for guiding the discussion.

### Problem Framing

> 1. Define the objective in business terms.

Reviewer: You don't have to change it here - but ideally, we should set all numbers to 1. so that the markdown renderer auto numbers (so we don't end up with stale numbering if someone changes the list)  

For this particular list it seems that the items are not necessarily ordered, should this be an unordered list?

Author: I think that there is a rough ordering, so I have left the numbers.

Reviewer: Yeah, I meant as in if you set all the numbers to 1 markdown will automatically give the right numbers, that way if someone removes an item from the list later, it will re-order correctly

2. How will the solution be used?
3. What are the current solutions/workarounds (if any)?
4. How should performance be measured?
5. Is the performance measure aligned with the business objective?
6. What would be the minimum performance needed to reach the business objective?
7. Are there any known constraints around non-functional requirements that would have to be taken into account? (e.g., computation times)
8. Frame this problem (supervised/unsupervised, online/offline, etc.)
9. Is human expertise available?
10. How would you solve the problem manually?

> 11. What work has been done in this area so far?

Reviewer 2: Is 11 not super similar to 3? maybe the two can be merged

12. Are there any restrictions on the type of approaches which can be used? (e.g., does the solution need to be completely explainable?)
13. List the assumptions you or others have made so far. Verify these assumptions if possible.

> 14. Define some hypothesis statements to be explored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
14. Define some initial hypothesis statements to be explored.
```

> 15. Highlight and discuss any responsible AI concerns if appropriate.

Reviewer 2: Other things that could be added here:
- How will this solution be maintained and monitored? 
- Does this solution need to fit within an existing system?

### Data Exploration

> 1. Understand and document the features, location, and availability of the data.

Reviewer: Same comments as above

2. What order of magnitude is the current data (e.g., GB, TB)? Is this all relevant?
3. How does the organization decide when to collect additional data or purchase external data? Are there any examples of this?
4. What data has been used so far to analyse recent data-driven projects? What has been found to be most useful? What was not useful? How was this judged?
5. What additional internal data may provide insights useful for data-driven decision making for proposed projects? What external data could be useful?
6. What are the possible constraints or challenges in accessing or incorporating this data?
7. How was the data collected? Are there any obvious biases due to how the data was collected?
8. What changes to data collection, coding, integration, etc has occurred in the last 2 years that may impact the interpretation or availability of the collected data

### Workflow

> 1. What data science skills are currently in the organization?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. What data science skills exist in the organization?
```

* generally popular items
* items similar to those liked/purchased by the customer
* items that were liked/purchased by similar customers
* items which are complementary to those owned by the customer

Whilst this list is by no means exhaustive, it provides a good indication of the data that is likely to be useful to us:

* item sales data
* customer purchase histories
* customer demographics
* item descriptions and tags
* previous outfits, or sets, which have been curated by the stylist

We would then be able to use this data to explore:

* a method of measuring similarity between items
* a method of measuring similarity between customers
* a method of measuring how complementary items are relative to one another

which can be used to create and rank recommendations. Depending on the project scope, and available data, one or more of these areas could be selected to create hypotheses to be explored by the data science team. Some examples of such hypothesis statements could be:

* From the descriptions of each item, we can determine a measure of similarity between different items to a degree of accuracy which is specified by a stylist.

> * Based on the behaviour of customers with similar purchasing histories, we are able to predict certain items that a customer is likely to purchase; with a certainty which is greater than random choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Based on the behavior of customers with similar purchasing histories, we are able to predict certain items that a customer is likely to purchase; with a certainty which is greater than random choice.
```

Author: Are we going U.S or UK? ;)

Reviewer: Fair point :) I go through most PRs and have tried to standardize on US English for a cohesive feeling - but having said that. I won’t reject if you refuse to change this

* Using sets of items which have previously been sold together, we can formulate rules around the features which determine whether items are complementary or not which can be verified by a stylist.

## References

Many of the ideas presented here - and much more - were inspired by, and can be found in the following resources; all of which are highly recommended.

> * Fast.ai's Data project checklist: <https://www.fast.ai/2020/01/07/data-questionnaire/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Fast.ai's Data project checklist](https://www.fast.ai/2020/01/07/data-questionnaire/)
```

Author: The `<` around links were added based on the linter that was recommended in the contribution guidelines, will it complain if I remove these?

Reviewer: You got that warning because you had bare urls - but in general we try to use markdown linking - I.e with []() and link the words rather than the urls in the playbook - the suggestion should work

> * Aurélien Géron's Machine learning project checklist: <https://github.com/ageron/handson-ml/blob/master/ml-project-checklist.md>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Aurélien Géron's Machine learning project checklist](https://github.com/ageron/handson-ml/blob/master/ml-project-checklist.md)
```

> * Designing great data products. Jeremy Howard, Margit Zwemer and Mike Loukides: <https://www.oreilly.com/radar/drivetrain-approach-data-products/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Designing great data products. Jeremy Howard, Margit Zwemer and Mike Loukides](https://www.oreilly.com/radar/drivetrain-approach-data-products/)
```
